Basic Claude Code configuration (#1000)
JetBrains/lincheck: CLAUDE.md

# CLAUDE.md

> This repository contains three main products:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repository contains three main projects:
```

- **Lincheck** — a framework for testing concurrent code on the JVM. It explores thread interleavings to find concurrency bugs via stress testing and bounded model checking, verifying correctness properties like linearizability and quiescent consistency. See [README.md](README.md) for usage examples and quick start.
- **Trace Recorder** — a JVM agent that records execution traces for later analysis.

> - **Live Debugger** — a JVM agent for real-time debugging of concurrent code via WebSocket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Live Debugger** — a JVM agent that allows inserting dynamic non-suspendable breakpoints.
```

## Build Commands

```bash
# Build everything (includes tests)
./gradlew build

# Run main module tests only
./gradlew test

# Run isolated tests (each in separate JVM, excluded from regular `test`)
./gradlew testIsolated

# Run specific test class

> ./gradlew test --tests "org.jetbrains.kotlinx.lincheck_test.SomeTest"

Reviewer 2: I believe this doesn't work from the root of the project:

```
 ./gradlew test --tests "org.jetbrains.kotlinx.lincheck_test.SomeTest"

[Incubating] Problems report is available at: file:///Users/Bob.Brockbernd/IdeaProjects/DebuggingLabMonorepo-secondary/build/reports/problems/problems-report.html

FAILURE: Build failed with an exception.

* What went wrong:
Task 'test' not found in root project 'debugging-lab'.

* Try:
> Run gradlew tasks to get a list of available tasks.
> For more on name expansion, please refer to https://docs.gradle.org/9.0.0/userguide/command_line_interface.html#sec:name_abbreviation in the Gradle documentation.
> Run with --stacktrace option to get the stack trace.
> Run with --info or --debug option to get more log output.
> Run with --scan to generate a Build Scan (Powered by Develocity).
> Get more help at https://help.gradle.org.

BUILD FAILED in 590ms
9 actionable tasks: 9 up-to-date
```

What can be done is `./gradlew :lincheck:test --tests "org.jetbrains.kotlinx.lincheck_test.SomeTest"`

# Run a submodule's tests
./gradlew :trace:test
./gradlew :integration-test:lincheck:test

# Auto-repair representation test baselines (verify changes manually!)
./gradlew test -PoverwriteRepresentationTestsOutput=true

# Use another JDK version (default 17)
./gradlew test -PjdkToolchainVersion=21

# Enable debug logging
./gradlew test -Plincheck.logLevel=DEBUG
```

Tests run single-fork (`maxParallelForks = 1`) with 6GB heap. The `check` task includes both `test` and `testIsolated`.

> ### Integration Tests

Reviewer: I think after https://github.com/JetBrains/lincheck/pull/1006 this root `CLAUDE.md` file needs to be re-structured a bit, moving project-specific information to corresponding project root: `lincheck`, `trace-recorder` or `live-debugger`.

Run these after big changes:

```bash
# Lincheck integration tests (JCTools, concurrent data structures)

> ./gradlew :integration-test:lincheck:integrationTest

Reviewer: Let's move to `lincheck/CLAUDE.md`.

# Trace recorder integration tests (basic suite)

> ./gradlew :integration-test:trace-recorder:traceRecorderIntegrationTest

Reviewer: Let's move to `trace-recorder/CLAUDE.md`.

# Trace recorder with specific test suite
./gradlew :integration-test:trace-recorder:traceRecorderIntegrationTest -PintegrationTestSuite=kotlincompiler
./gradlew :integration-test:trace-recorder:traceRecorderIntegrationTest -PintegrationTestSuite=ktor
./gradlew :integration-test:trace-recorder:traceRecorderIntegrationTest -PintegrationTestSuite=ij
./gradlew :integration-test:trace-recorder:traceRecorderIntegrationTest -PintegrationTestSuite=all
```

The `traceRecorderIntegrationTest` task automatically downloads required test projects from GitHub via the `traceAgentIntegrationTestsPrerequisites` task.

> ## Architecture

Reviewer: This section needs to be re-written. 

Let's move Lincheck-specific details about testing strategies into `lincheck/CLAUDE.md`. 

Let's instead give here an overview of each submodule: what its purpose and what it does.
- `bootstrap`
- `common`
- `trace`
- `jvm-agent`
- `lincheck`
- `trace-recorder`
- `live-debugger`.

**Execution flow:** `LinChecker` creates an `ExecutionScenario` (parallel threads with `Actor` operations), picks a `Strategy`, and runs via a `Runner`. Results go through a `Verifier`.

**Two strategies:**
- `ModelCheckingStrategy` (`strategy/managed/modelchecking/`) - Systematically explores interleavings via bytecode instrumentation. This is the primary strategy.
- `StressTestingStrategy` (`strategy/stress/`) - Runs threads concurrently relying on OS scheduling randomness.

**Bytecode transformation pipeline:** ASM-based transformers instrument synchronization, volatile accesses, atomic operations, coroutines, and method calls to enable controlled execution under model checking.

## Key Conventions

- Kotlin with 4-space indentation, following [Kotlin Coding Conventions](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/coding-conventions.html)
- Bootstrap classes must live in `sun.nio.ch.lincheck` package for classloader visibility

> - Test classes use `lincheck_test` package namespace

Reviewer: Let's move (last bullet) to `lincheck/CLAUDE.md` (it is not obligatory for other tests in the project beyound Lincheck's tests).

## Tooling and Workflow

- **Use skills** from `/skills`.
- **Always check for dead code** after refactorings — ensure no unused imports, functions, classes, or variables are left behind.

> - **Always run tests** (`./gradlew test`) after making changes to verify nothing is broken.

Reviewer: BTW: when working locally with the agent I do not ask it to run tests after each change, because our test suite is really heavy and takes some time to run all tests. I often ask the agent to only check compilation (by `compileKotlin` gradle task) and run tests only after whole "feature"/PR is ready. 

Ideally, we should have some lightweight "smoke" test suite for such purpose.
